## Thinking in Components
- Modular and composable
- Cohesion
- SRP

Note:
This is actually a big topic, and could be a talk in it's own right. 

One of the biggest shifts in thinking (and benefits of React) IMO was starting to think about our app as tree series of discrete components, with well defined inputs and outputs.

One of the great benefits of thinking UI first is optimising around the user.

---

## Thinking in Components
- https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/thinking-in-react.html
- http://www.google.co.nz/imgres?imgurl=http://maketea.co.uk/images/2014-03-05-robust-web-apps-with-react-part-1/wireframe_deconstructed.png&imgrefurl=http://maketea.co.uk/2014/03/05/building-robust-web-apps-with-react-part-1.html&h=600&w=800&tbnid=n6cFgMvTwCqQ3M:&docid=taIGOoRVKBge1M&ei=RKapVbbLB6K7mAWpmJKIBQ&tbm=isch&ved=0CCMQMygIMAhqFQoTCLb9k6q-48YCFaIdpgodKYwEUQ
- Component hierarchy with semantic structure

Note:
There's a really great post in the React Docs "Thinking in React", that walks through the process of breaking part of an app up into components, which really helped make it click.

One of the great things about React on the Web and in HTML (and possibly UIs in general) is this seems very much going with the grain of HTML.

Thinking of your app as a component hierarchy seems a natural extention to semantic HTML. A good first here is to slice up the app into rough functional areas with self contained functionality.

[React Inspector]
[Code Example]


---
 

## Thinking in Components
- Small is beautiful

Note:
Now the idea of components isn't new nor is the React the only UI library which allows you to create them. But we've found they feel much more baked into React, and as a result this allows you to take the concept much further.

We've found ourselves splitting out the smallest behaviours into discrete components which can really help with testing. 

One aspect of this I particularly like is the ability to define small pieces of ui as funtions. Since JSX is embedded into the component, and can be returned by any function and not just render, there is very little friction to decomposing further inside components, and you start to think of chunks of HTML as simple functions. 

[Code Example]
