## Synthetic Events
- Cross Platform<!-- .element: class="fragment" -->
- Autobind this<!-- .element: class="fragment" -->
- Delegate by default<!-- .element: class="fragment" -->

Note:
React's Synthetic Event system is great. It normalises events across the browser.

Whilst you declare event handelers inline, behind the scenes it uses a top level listener and event delegation to keep things performant.

It also autobinds `this` in callbacks that are attached which is a nice conveniance, but also some of the magic that they're looking to remove in favour of a _least surprise_ approach.

If you're targetting a touch device, you'll need to explitly enable touchEvents.


---

## Synthetic Events
- Global Keyboard shorcuts
- Window.resize<!-- .element: class="fragment" -->
- window.mouseUp<!-- .element: class="fragment" -->
- load on images<!-- .element: class="fragment" -->

Note:
There are times we've had to step outside of React's built in event system and listen to the DOM directly.

We have keyobard shortcuts bound to the document, with groups of keyboard shortcuts enabled and disabled via a KeyboardManager which components can communicate with directly.

[Diagram]

We bind to certain window events such as resize and mouseup directly, in componentDidMount and componentWillUnmount.

[Code]

Finally, where we need finer grained control over image loading both when we're providing nice preloaders or displaying uploaded images immediately whilst their uploaded we bind directly to image elements load event.

[Code]


