## Testing
- renderIntoDocument
- Simulate

Note:
One of the great things about React having a Virtual DOM and a
Synthetic events system are simpler testing tools

As a result, testing component subtrees in React is nice and easy by default.

React has a TestUtils package in it's addons which allows you to render components directly, and simulate Synthetic Events for interations.

This does require a dom implementation, we use jsdom.

We have hit problems with this approach trying, to isolate components under tests near the top the hierarchy. This generally results in large component graphs rendering, some of which have dependancies that require extensive mocking, which leads excesssive setup.


---

## Testing
- Jest

Note:
We tried Jest, a testing library from Facebook which attempts to solve this by monkey patching `require` to automocking all common js require modules.

This didn't play at all nice with CoffeeScript which we were still using at the time we tried it, and felt a little heavy handed anyway.


---


## Testing
- Shallow rendering
- http://simonsmith.io/unit-testing-react-components-without-a-dom/


Note:
With the most recent version of React, Facebook added a new experimental feature called Shallow rendering.

This _doesn't_ require a DOM, and allows you to see the results of rendering a component just one level deep and assert against the output.

This looks promising as a way of unit testing testing componets. We're not using it yet, but we're planning in checking it out soon.


---

## Testing
- https://github.com/QubitProducts/react-test-tree

Note:

I also across this neat library recently, which let's you do something similar be specifying which components in a hierarchy to stub out, and also provides some nice conveniance methods.

Alex Gibson is our resident testing Guru so worth asking him some more questions if you're interested.

---


