## Performance

Note:
Something that React has been accociated with React is performance.

---


## Performance
### Myths
[Picture]

Note:

A misconception that bothers me a bit, is that React is somehow magically faster than all other libraries, because of the virtual DOM.

I think the way React is architected leads to good perfomance out of the box. And it's API offers some simple ways to optimise performance.

Applying changes against a virtual DOM, and then deferring to React's reconcilliation alogrithm means that you don't need to do the heavy lifting of figuring out how to update the DOM efficienty, and it and means you avoid being chatty with the DOM. Effectively "double buffering" changes.

So it's easier to build applications that are fast, but performance will generally be comparable to other frameworks (such as Anguar and Ember) if they are optimised well.

Testament to this is the fact that we haven't got to the stage where we've heavily needed to improve performance in the app, and it's remained at mostly acceptable levels of performance. We've still got quite a bit of work in that are in front of us.

[Could skip]
- https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=9638966
- http://blog.500tech.com/is-reactjs-fast
I've seen several React talks given by Facebook people and the pitch they make is that React makes things simpler to reason about with acceptable out of the box performance (and levers to make it faster as needed). There may be some people pitching the speed angle, but I don't think it's the Facebook people.

One of the first questions people ask when considering React for a project is whether their application will be as fast and responsive as an equivalent non-React version. The idea of re-rendering an entire subtree of components in response to every state change makes people wonder whether this process negatively impacts performance. React uses several clever techniques to minimize the number of costly DOM operations required to update the UI.
The React team and early proponents got out ahead of this concern, pushing the message that React is fast. It's faster than you'd think, they said, and in some cases faster than the alternatives. Their arguments seem to have gotten distorted and simplified by those repeating them.


---


## Performance
### Provide stable keys
[Code of keys]

Note:
A simple performamce tip, which React will actually warn you about in the console is to make sure you're providing _stable_ keys for your components, especially lists of components mapped from arrays. 


---

## Performance
### Avoiding reconciling the DOM
https://facebook.github.io/react/img/docs/should-component-update.png
http://techblog.constantcontact.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/TechTalk_BAnderson_11052014_Image7.png

Note:
Whilst React is pretty smart about the way it reconciles it's virtual DOM with the real one, the main performance optimisation technique is to give React hints to reduce the amount of reconciliation it needs to do at all.


---

## Performance
### shouldComponentUpdate

Note:
This is done by using the shouldComponentUpdate hook in the component lifecycle. This is called before the rendering process starts, giving you the opportunity to shortcut the process. 

Here you can check if the props or state of a component have changed in a way that effects what will be rendered. If not, return false to shortcut the rendering entirely.

---

## Performance
# ## PureRenderMixin

Note:

For examples such as the one above based on simple props/state structures, this is seems straightforward. Facebook provides a generalised solution to this problem via the PureRenderMixin, which hooks into shouldComponentUpdate and does a shallow comparison of all props and state.

This get's a little more complicated with nested data structures such as arrays and lists. A top level comparison of the reference will always return true even if the contents have changes.

---

## Performance
### Immutable Data
[http://arqex.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/trees.png]

Note:
This is where immutable data structures can help. Essentially these are structures allow you to change only what is necessary in nested structures.

[Code example?]

I'll intentionally gloss over the details since it's a fairly sense subject,  but essentially they mean that if the contents of an array change, the reference to that would change. But the indivudual elements might not.


---

## Performance
### Immutable-JS

Note:
Facebook offers some simple immutable helpers as part of it's addons, and they've released a much more fully feaurted standalone immutable-js library. 

We've started to used both of these in the app, and we've still got a fair bit of optimisation to do. 

Whilst they're very clever and their concepts are great. But they do come with an overhead, making code that updates data more complicated. 

Our current approach is to identify the performance hot-spots within the app, and optimise those with immutable-js if appropriate.


---

## Performance
### React performance tools
- Perf.start() and Perf.stop()
- Perf.printInclusive(measurements)
- Perf.printExclusive(measurements)
- Perf.printWasted(measurements)

Note:
React comes with a neat Addon to help you figure out where these performance hotspots are. 

It's a pretty simple API that let's you start and stop recording of react operations for analysis, and then print the results. 

The most important call this is the printWasted command, which shows you time spend rendering and reconcillling components that didn't result in any actual DOM updates. I.e. the components that would benefit from implementing shouldComponentUpdate.

---

## Performance
## React performance tools
https://files.slack.com/files-pri/T024LB738-F03AGC611/screen_shot_2015-01-08_at_2.26.11_pm.png

Note:
This is what the result looked like a few months ago with Atomic, and as you can see we've got some work to do.

